docs/build_arm.md, before:

# Build Larq Compute Engine for ARM
This page descibes how to build Larq Compute Engine (LCE) binaries
for 32-bit, as well as 64-bit ARM-based systems.
[Bazel](https://bazel.build/) is the primary build system for LCE and can
be used to cross-compile binaries for ARM architectures directly from the host.
To natively build on an ARM system, we provide a solution based on the
Makefile build system.

This leaves us with three ways to build LCE binaries, which we recommend in
the following order:
1. To cross-compile LCE from a host machine, see
   [Cross-compiling LCE with Bazel](#cross-compiling-lce-with-bazel)
2. To natively compile LCE, see
   [Building LCE with Make](#building-lce-with-make).
3. To cross-compile LCE using the Make system for users that do not wish to
   install Bazel, see
   [Cross-compiling LCE with Make](#cross-compiling-lce-with-make).

This guide will show you how to build the [LCE example program](../examples/lce_minimal.cc).
See [here](./inference.md) to find out how you can create your own LCE
inference binary.

NOTE: Although the Raspberry Pi 3 and Raspberry Pi 4 have 64-bit CPUs, the
officially supported OS Raspbian for the Raspberry Pi is a 32-bit OS. In order
to use the optimized 64-bit kernels of LCE on a Raspberry Pi, a 64-bit OS such
as [Manjaro](https://manjaro.org/download/#raspberry-pi-4-xfce) should be used.

## Cross-compiling LCE with Bazel

First configure Bazel using the instructions [here](build.md#configure-bazelrc).

To cross-compile the LCE example for ARM architectures, the bazel
target needs to be built with the `--config=rpi3` (32-bit ARM) or
`--config=aarch64` (64-bit ARM) flag. For example, to build the example
for 64-bit ARM systems, run the following command from the LCE root
directory:
```bash
bazel build \
    --config=aarch64 \
    //examples:lce_minimal
 ```

To build the LCE benchmark tool, build the bazel target
`//larq_compute_engine/tflite/benchmark:lce_benchmark_model`

The resulting binaries will be stored at
`bazel-bin/examples/lce_minimal` and
`bazel-bin/larq_compute_engine/tflite/benchmark/lce_benchmark_model`. You can
copy these to your ARM machine and run them there.

## Building LCE with Make
To build LCE with Make, first make sure the tensorflow submodule is loaded
(this only has to be done once):
``` bash
git submodule update --init
```
To simplify the build process for various supported targets, we provide the
`build_lce.sh` script which accepts the build target platform as an input
argument.

To natively build the LCE library and C++ example programs, first you need to
install the compiler toolchain on your target device. For example, on a
Raspberry Pi board with Raspbian, run the following command:
```
sudo apt-get install build-essential
```

You should then be able to natively compile LCE by running the following from
the LCE root directory:
```bash
larq_compute_engine/tflite/build_make/build_lce.sh --native
```

It is also possible to replace `--native` by `--rpi` (32-bit ARM) or
`--aarch64` (64-bit ARM) to add extra compiler optimization flags.

The resulting compiled files will be stored in
`third_party/tensorflow/tensorflow/lite/tools/make/gen/<TARGET>` where,
depending on your target platform, `<TARGET>` can be `linux_x86_64`,
`rpi_armv7l`, or `aarch64_armv8-a`. In the `bin` folder, you can find the
example program `lce_minimal` and benchmark program `benchmark_model`.
In the `lib` folder, you can find the TensorFlow Lite static library
`libtensorflow-lite.a` which includes the LCE customs ops.

## Cross-compiling LCE with Make
First make sure the tensorflow submodule is loaded (this only has to be done
once):
``` bash
git submodule update --init
```

To cross-compile LCE, you need to first install the compiler toolchain.
For Debian based systems, run the following commands:
``` bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install crossbuild-essential-armhf
```
On non-Debian based systems, the package could be called `arm-linux-gnueabihf`.

To build for 32-bit ARM architectures, run the following command from the LCE
root directory:
```bash
larq_compute_engine/tflite/build_make/build_lce.sh --rpi
```
When building for a 64-bit ARM architecture, replace `--rpi` with `--aarch64`.

See [Building LCE with Make](#building-lce-with-make) for the location of
the resulting build files. Copy the `benchmark_model` program to your ARM
machine to run it.

Commit message:

DOCS: Adding instructions for linux Arch when using Make (#216)

docs/build_arm.md, after:

# Build Larq Compute Engine for ARM
This page descibes how to build Larq Compute Engine (LCE) binaries
for 32-bit, as well as 64-bit ARM-based systems.
[Bazel](https://bazel.build/) is the primary build system for LCE and can
be used to cross-compile binaries for ARM architectures directly from the host.
To natively build on an ARM system, we provide a solution based on the
Makefile build system.

This leaves us with three ways to build LCE binaries, which we recommend in
the following order:
1. To cross-compile LCE from a host machine, see
   [Cross-compiling LCE with Bazel](#cross-compiling-lce-with-bazel)
2. To natively compile LCE, see
   [Building LCE with Make](#building-lce-with-make).
3. To cross-compile LCE using the Make system for users that do not wish to
   install Bazel, see
   [Cross-compiling LCE with Make](#cross-compiling-lce-with-make).

This guide will show you how to build the [LCE example program](../examples/lce_minimal.cc).
See [here](./inference.md) to find out how you can create your own LCE
inference binary.

NOTE: Although the Raspberry Pi 3 and Raspberry Pi 4 have 64-bit CPUs, the
officially supported OS Raspbian for the Raspberry Pi is a 32-bit OS. In order
to use the optimized 64-bit kernels of LCE on a Raspberry Pi, a 64-bit OS such
as [Manjaro](https://manjaro.org/download/#raspberry-pi-4-xfce) should be used.

## Cross-compiling LCE with Bazel

First configure Bazel using the instructions [here](build.md#configure-bazelrc).

To cross-compile the LCE example for ARM architectures, the bazel
target needs to be built with the `--config=rpi3` (32-bit ARM) or
`--config=aarch64` (64-bit ARM) flag. For example, to build the example
for 64-bit ARM systems, run the following command from the LCE root
directory:
```bash
bazel build \
    --config=aarch64 \
    //examples:lce_minimal
 ```

To build the LCE benchmark tool, build the bazel target
`//larq_compute_engine/tflite/benchmark:lce_benchmark_model`

The resulting binaries will be stored at
`bazel-bin/examples/lce_minimal` and
`bazel-bin/larq_compute_engine/tflite/benchmark/lce_benchmark_model`. You can
copy these to your ARM machine and run them there.

## Building LCE with Make
To build LCE with Make, first clone the Larq Compute Engine repo and make sure the tensorflow submodule is loaded
(this only has to be done once):
``` bash
git submodule update --init
```
To simplify the build process for various supported targets, we provide the
`build_lce.sh` script which accepts the build target platform as an input
argument.

To natively build the LCE library and C++ example programs, first you need to
install the compiler toolchain on your target device. On Debian based systems like a
Raspberry Pi board with Raspbian, run the following command:
```
sudo apt-get install build-essential
```

On an Arch based system like a Raspberry Pi board with Manjaro operating system, run the following command instead:

```
sudo pacman -S base-devel
```

You should then be able to natively compile LCE by running the following from
the LCE root directory:
```bash
larq_compute_engine/tflite/build_make/build_lce.sh --native
```

It is also possible to replace `--native` by `--rpi` (32-bit ARM) or
`--aarch64` (64-bit ARM) to add extra compiler optimization flags.

The resulting compiled files will be stored in
`third_party/tensorflow/tensorflow/lite/tools/make/gen/<TARGET>` where,
depending on your target platform, `<TARGET>` can be `linux_x86_64`,
`rpi_armv7l`, or `aarch64_armv8-a`. In the `bin` folder, you can find the
example program `lce_minimal` and benchmark program `benchmark_model`.
In the `lib` folder, you can find the TensorFlow Lite static library
`libtensorflow-lite.a` which includes the LCE customs ops.

## Cross-compiling LCE with Make
First clone the Larq Compute Engine repo and make sure the tensorflow submodule is loaded (this only has to be done
once):
``` bash
git submodule update --init
```

To cross-compile LCE, you need to first install the compiler toolchain.
For Debian based systems, run the following commands:
``` bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install crossbuild-essential-armhf
```

On an Arch based systems, the package is called `arm-linux-gnueabihf`:

``` bash
sudo pacman -Syy
sudo pacman -S arm-linux-gnueabihf
```


To build for 32-bit ARM architectures, run the following command from the LCE
root directory:
```bash
larq_compute_engine/tflite/build_make/build_lce.sh --rpi
```
When building for a 64-bit ARM architecture, replace `--rpi` with `--aarch64`.

See [Building LCE with Make](#building-lce-with-make) for the location of
the resulting build files. Copy the `benchmark_model` program to your ARM
machine to run it.
